Election 2026 nominations blog post (#1109)
AlmaLinux/almalinux.org: content/blog/2026-08-03-election-nominations.md

---
title: "Board election nominations are open: help steer AlmaLinux"
type: blog
author:
  name: "Alex Iribarren"
  bio: "Director, AlmaLinux OS Foundation, member of the Election Committee"
  image: /board/alexiribarren.jpg
date: "2026-08-03"
images:

>   - /blog-images/2026/2026-08-03-board-election-nominations.png

Reviewer: you don't have to use it, but I have a template for all 2026-based-election-header/images already set up in canva: 

https://www.canva.com/design/DAGljNLRwyI/FkcrDupsxcfIzIG_w8FRhA/edit

post:
  title: "Know someone who should help steer AlmaLinux? Nominations open today and close September 8. Here's what the role involves and how to put a name forward."
  image: /blog-images/2026/2026-08-03-board-election-nominations.png
---

Nominations for this year's board election open today, August 3, and they close on September 8. There are two Cohort A seats to fill, and this is the first election under our [new bylaws and election process](/blog/2026-06-10-new-bylaws-and-2026-election). More details are available on the [2026 election page](https://wiki.almalinux.org/foundation/elections/2026.html).

> AlmaLinux runs in places none of us can fully see: hospitals, banks, universities, someone's homelab, a shop floor with a machine that has to stay up. The board can only weigh the perspectives that are in the room, so if you know someone whose experience should be in that room, please ask them if they'd like you to send their name in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AlmaLinux runs in places none of us can fully see: hospitals, banks, universities, homelabs - everything from mission critical to playing around. The board can only weigh the perspectives that are in the room, so if you know someone whose experience should be in that room, we need to hear from them. Please ask them if they'd like you to send their name in.
```

> AlmaLinux runs in places none of us can fully see: hospitals, banks, universities, someone's homelab, a shop floor with a machine that has to stay up. The board can only weigh the perspectives that are in the room, so if you know someone whose experience should be in that room, please ask them if they'd like you to send their name in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why to join the AlmaLinux OS Foundation Board

AlmaLinux runs in places none of us can fully see: hospitals, banks, universities, someone's homelab, a shop floor with a machine that has to stay up. The board can only weigh the perspectives that are in the room, so if you know someone whose experience should be in that room, please ask them if they'd like you to send their name in.
```

> ## What you'd be signing them up for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What Directors are signing up for
```

> Directors serve a four year term, and the work is usually between 2 and 10 hours a month. It isn't a paid position, and it isn't a full time job. We handle the financial health of the Foundation, its governance, and its overall direction. We don't make the technical calls: that's [ALESCo](https://almalinux.org/alesco/) and the [SIGs](https://wiki.almalinux.org/sigs/), and we listen to them closely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directors serve a four year term, and the work is usually between 2 and 10 hours a month. It isn't a paid position, and it isn't a full time job. We handle the financial health of the Foundation, its governance, and its overall direction. While we are an escalation path for nearly everything, we don't make the technical calls. Those are handled by the [SIGs](https://wiki.almalinux.org/sigs/), and  [ALESCo](https://almalinux.org/alesco/), and we listen to them closely.
```

## How to nominate someone

> Send their name and e-mail address to [elections@almalinux.org](mailto:elections@almalinux.org), from the address on your [AlmaLinux Accounts](https://accounts.almalinux.org) profile. That's it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have confirmed their interest, you can nominate them by sending their name and e-mail address to [elections@almalinux.org](mailto:elections@almalinux.org). The email addresses for both the nominator and the nominated need to match the address on your [AlmaLinux Accounts](https://accounts.almalinux.org) profiles. That will allow the election committee to confirm your membership status.
```

> One thing worth knowing before you write that email: Individual and Mirror members can nominate one person, but cannot nominate themselves. If you'd like to serve, ask someone to put your name in. Sponsor members can nominate a representative from their organization, including themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One thing worth knowing before you write that email: Individual and Mirror members can nominate one person, but cannot nominate themselves. If you'd like to serve, ask another Foundation member to put your name in. Sponsor members can nominate a representative from their organization, including themselves.
```

## The rest of the election calendar

| Milestone                                   | Date               |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Nominations open                            | **August 3, 2026** |
| Nominations close, candidate list published | September 8, 2026  |
| Voting opens                                | September 14, 2026 |
| Voting closes                               | October 2, 2026    |
| Results announced                           | by October 9, 2026 |

> Voting will happen on [AlmaLinux Accounts](https://accounts.almalinux.org/elections/). If you were a member in good standing by July 16, you'll get an email with your voting link and credentials on the day the election opens, so there's nothing you need to do between now and then. This year the ballot is ranked choice: you'll put the candidates in your order of preference rather than picking one name. If we haven't reached quorum by October 2, voting stays open until we do.

Reviewer: Should we add a field that shows when their membership started exactly, so they know if they are eligible or not?

Author: I didn't for privacy reasons. Anyway, it's up to the Election Committee to verify they're eligible.

Author: Ah, wait, you can see when *your* membership started, not when somebody else's did.
